---
title: "Ribbon Microphones"
series: "How It Works: Microphones"
excerpt: |
    Part 2. 
    A discussion on Ribbon Microphones
page-num: 2
thumbnail: "https://images.pexels.com/photos/2097428/pexels-photo-2097428.jpeg"
categories: blog how-it-works microphones
tags: how-it-works
redirect_from: "/blog/how-it-works/microphones/2/"
prev-title: What is a Microphone?
next-title: Dynamic Microphones
---
* TOC
{:toc}

# Ribbon Microphones

Since the invention of the carbon microphone, many have expanded on its basic design. The most common type of microphones these days are called dynamic microphones. These microphones are designated into two subcategories: ribbon and moving coil. They both work on a principle of electromagnetism, which states that a moving conductor in an electromagnetic field will have a voltage produced across it. 

### Sound Production
With ribbon microphones, there is a thin aluminum strip or “ribbon” suspended between opposing poles of a strong magnet. Either end of the ribbon is pinned down, but free to move about in the middle. As acoustic waves hit the ribbon it moves about in the electromagnetic field inducing a voltage which is telegraphed through the microphone as an electrical representation of the acoustic signal. 

### Pros and Cons
Ribbon mics have a very low output due to the general small size of the metal strip and as such they usually have step up transformers which increase the output and better match impedances with a preamp. If we increase the physical size of the ribbon and/or the strength of the magnet, there is an increase of output at the expense of frequency response and overall usability due to size. Usually however ribbon microphones have a very smooth frequency response and excellent portrayal of transients.

